---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## MIT License Explained
The "Do Anything" License. Basically, you can do whatever you want with the software (use, modify, publish, etc.) as long as you include the oiginal copyright and license notice in any copy of the project.

## Installing Development Environment
I decided not to work on the project I originally evaluated and instead installed the development environment for Free Code Camp. The instructions were clear and beginner-friendly. I had no difficulty in setting up the codebase. 

## Christos' Presentation

Based off of Christos’ story, what jumped out to me was just how big the OSS community is. Usually I think that what is most important about OSS is the actual software itself, but in reality a big part of the experience is simply getting to know people from all over the world and learning from those connections. I didn’t really think that OSS could be the key to a successful career, especially since everything is non-profit, but it helped Christos make the right connections and land his job at Mozilla. Overall, I learned that the OSS community is a lot bigger than I thought and that the people you work with along the way are what make it great. It seems to be a very welcoming and passionate environment, which is probably why many of these projects succeed.

## Mozilla Mission

The Mozilla Mission is important because it offers a truly private and personal browsing experience. Over recent years, the internet has grown at a remarkable rate and just about anyone now has access to an incredible amount of information. I support Mozilla’s mission because the internet is a source of knowledge and innovation that all should be able to freely use. Keeping the internet customizable and open to everyone keeps us informed and readily able to contribute in all aspects and not just technology. Nowadays, the internet is probably the first place to check for an answer to a question and it is important to feel unrestricted when using this invaluable source so that everyone can make the most of its potential. Evidently, when we keep resources “open” such as open source software, there is more room for creativity and growth.
