---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## Blog about at least two of the three lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar essay listed below (what do you think they mean and what do you think about them):

### "Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."

I think this lesson refers to the importance of keeping your code as clear and concise as possible. A software project is never truly “complete” as there is always features that can be added or modified depending on the user. Therefore, perfecting your code means making it as efficient and easy-to-read as possible, removing any extra steps or tasks that are not necessary. As a coder, I believe that keeping your work as simple as possible is especially important in the open source world since it will make things easier for new contributors, motivating them to join in.

### "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

Sometimes when you have hit a wall in development it might not be because you can’t find the right answer, but because you are asking the wrong question. Rather than trying to fix a problem by brute force, it is important to take a step back and understand the problem at hand completely. Once you know the exact cause of the problem and the processes leading up to it, then you can find the correct solution. 

## Talk about one of the lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar essay that you liked the most and that resonated with you the most (why is it important to you)

### "The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better."

I liked this lesson the most because it highlights the main principle behind open source software. It is important to remain humble and a good teammate because some of the best software out there is open source and the product of thousands of contributors’ work. By encouraging teamwork, more bugs will be found and more issues can be fixed. This lesson is important to me because I always wondered how open source could work so well prior to this class. Open source has found its place in the tech world because there is always something new to learn from others and acknowledging this virtue of teamwork will help me build great software. 

## Blog about your personal progress towards the team project: what have you done, what did you learn, what are the tasks that you will be working on next week

This week we made our first pull request and it was merged about 2 days later. The issue we selected was helping provide TypeScript variants to Material-UI’s component demos, which involved creating and committing a series of files written in TypeScript. I also went ahead and started to help translate the Material-UI website into Spanish. Since there are so many documents left to translate, I decided to start with the Frequently Asked Questions page. Contributions for this task are gathered on Crowdin instead of GitHub. This week I learned how to code in TypeScript and what it accomplishes. For next week, if there are still demos that need their TypeScript variants then we will continue working on that or we may move onto proposing a new component. For me personally, I will continue contributing to the translation of the FAQ page.
