---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Using Open Source Software in Projects for Social Good

I believe that open source software is a great way to help others and key to promoting humanitarianism as its principles are similar to that of volunteerism in general. Open source software is all about working together as a team with a can-do attitude and no strings attached, providing the perfect environment for success in humanitarian efforts. By keeping these projects open, their impact can spread rapidly and adjustments can be made to cater to other problems at hand. Open source software deserves its place in social good because its shareability makes it easier to help as many people as possible. 

### Do you think such projects are easier or harder to get involved with?

These projects are probably easier to get involved with because of the ever-growing need for volunteers and an active community. When people's lives are on the line, there is no room for error. Thus, potential issues or improvements in the code or documentation are probably given more attention and quicker responses than regular projects. However, the variability of the needs of a people requires contributors to be more in touch with the goals of the cause and the immediate, local consequences of a disaster, for example. 

### Do you think involvement in such projects bring more or less prestige to the contributor (compared to other projects)?

I don't think that involvement in such projects should be about how much prestige it brings. Of course, contributing to one of them showcases one's coding skills, but the motivation behind one's contribution should be about helping others. Since some of these projects do in fact save the lives of many, there may be more appreciation and gratitude for the release and improvement of such a software, but we can not forget about other non-humantarian open source tools that allow for these HFOSS projects to even exist. 

### Would you want to be involved in a project like that?

I would love to get involved in a project like this and try to help as many people as possible. It would feel great knowing that my efforts in learning how to code and develop software actually saved people or simply made their lives better.


# Project Evaluation 



__Project Name:__  RapidSMS



---

## Finding info about contributing on the website.

__Project website:__ https://www.rapidsms.org/


__What is the purpose of the project:__ RapidSMS is a free and open-source framework for rapidly building mobile services for scale. RapidSMS is built with Python and Django and is designed for building robust, highly customized mobile services with web-based dashboards. RapidSMS provides a flexible platform and modular components for large-scale data collection, managing complex workflows, and automating data analysis.


__How easy was it to find information about contributing on the website?__ Very easy to find.


__Contributing instructions:__ We follow these practices when developing RapidSMS code:

1. Work on a branch off the develop branch.
2. Follow PEP8 style conventions. Use 4 spaces instead of tabs.
To learn more about writing ‘pythonic’ code, check out The Hitchhiker’s Guide To Python’s Code Style guide
Tip: Configure your development environment for python to make your life a bit easier.
3. Run the PEP 8 adherence tool.
4. Use CapitalizedCase for class names, underscored_words for method names.
5. Code using os.path must be Windows and ‘NIX friendly. For example, don’t use backslashes (\) as path separators.
6. Be sure every class and method has docstrings.
7. Use Python logging whenever an error or exception occurs. Optionally include debug-level logging.
8. Write a test which shows that the bug was fixed or that the feature works as expected.
9. Run the RapidSMS core test suite to make sure nothing unexpected broke. We only accept pull requests with passing tests.
10. Write new or update existing documentation to describe the changes you made.
11. Add the change to the release notes document for the next release. The release notes should focus on the effects on existing users, particularly if it will require them to make changes.
12. Submit a pull request and get reviews before merging your changes, even if you have authority to merge the changes yourself.
13. Sign the Contributor License Agreement.

__URL for the code repository:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms

__Bug/Issue tracker link:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/issues?q=is%3Aopen

__Mailing list:__ https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rapidsms

__Chat channel:__ http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=rapidsms

__Other communication channels:__ https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rapidsms-dev


---

## Finding info at the project repository and bug/issue tracker.

__License:__ The 3-Clause BSD License

__Is it [OSI approved](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical) license:__ Yes

__Programming Language:__ Mainly Python. A little bit of HTML, CSS, and Javascript.

__URL for contributing instructions:__ https://rapidsms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/joining.html

__Are the contributing instructions clear?__ Yes


__URL for code of conduct / community norms / community guildelines:__ https://rapidsms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/index.html#rapidsms-community

__URL for instructions for users to download and install the package:__ https://rapidsms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/intro/install/index.html


__Are these instructions clear? Do you think they would be easy to follow?__ Yes and Ye


__Number of contributors:__ 32


__Usernames of three contributors with largest number of commits; for
each of them list the link to their latest commit__:

1. [adammck](https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/commit/c291feb675a5ca6867f01cb23cdfcc655903e025)
2. [czue](https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/commit/5cdc0010407ab898306eff546bbbba09a8785453)
3. [copelco](https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/commit/254530ea5bd33a94c5de9a568d6a85d778a8cf67)


__Number of commits:__ 5,932

__Latest commit__

- __link to the commit:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/commit/5fa0053d0e75ac1d1077c9e516f57e11961139f3

- __who made that commit:__ vkurup

- __what type of work was commited?__ (was it a fix to a bug, implementation of a new feature, ...) Merged pull request for a mispelled word in the documentation.


__Issues__

- __how many open issues are there:__ 57

    - __url for the last issue created:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/pull/490

    - __how many users discuss the issue:__ 1
    
    - __when was the issue reported:__ January 12, 2019
    

- __how many closed issues are there:__ 433
    - __url for the last issue closed:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/pull/489
    - __how many users discussed the issue:__ 1
    - __when was the issue reported:__ December 27, 2018
    - __when was the issue closed:__ December 27, 2018

- __how active is the discussion on the issues:__ Not very active

    - __example of a lot of good discussion:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/pull/454
    
    - __example of an issue that does not have much discussion:__ https://github.com/rapidsms/rapidsms/issues/449



- __are there issues marked "good for newbies", "beginner" or some other indicators that imply that they are good for beginner contributors:__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__
    
    - __look at a few of them, do they look beginner friendly?__ 



- __are there issues marked "documentation" or some other indicators that imply that they are documentation (user or developer specific):__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__
    
    - __look at a few of them, do you think you could submit a fix?__ 



__Pull requests__

- __how many open pull requests are there:__

    - __url for the last pull request created:__
    
    - __when was the last pull request made:__

    - __url for the oldest pull request created:__
    
    - __when was the oldest pull request made:__

- __how many closed pull requests are there:__

    - __url for the last pull request closed:__
    
    - __how many users discussed the pull request:__
    
    - __when was the pull request made:__
    
    - __when was the pull request closed:__
    

- __do maintainers respond quickly to pull requests when they are opened?__ 





---


## Summary assesment
__How friendly is this project for beginner contributors?__


__Do the maintainers respond helpfully to questions in issues?__


__Are people friendly in the issues, discussion forum, and chat (for example, IRC or Slack)?__



__Do pull requests get reviewed?__



__Do maintainers thank people for their contributions?__

