---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---



# Project Evaluation 



__Project Name:__  Express


---

## Finding info about contributing on the website.

In the following section you should only enter the information that you
found on the project website. Some of the answers will be impossible to find, others
may be very hard to find. Do not _google_ for answers.

__Project website:__ https://expressjs.com/


__What is the purpose of the project:__ Express is a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications.


__How easy was it to find information about contributing on the website?__ Very Easy


__Contributing instructions:__  

**Steps for contributing: **  

* Create an issue for the bug you want to fix or the feature that you want to add.
* Create your own fork on github, then checkout your fork.
* Write your code in your local copy. It’s good practice to create a branch for each new issue you work on, although not compulsory.
* To run the test suite, first install the dependencies by running npm install, then run npm test.
* If the tests pass, you can commit your changes to your fork and then create a pull request from there. Make sure to reference your issue from the pull request comments by including the issue number e.g. #123.

__URL for the code repository:__ https://github.com/expressjs/express/

__Bug/Issue tracker link:__ https://github.com/expressjs/express/issues

__Mailing list:__ https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/express-js

__Chat channel:__ https://gitter.im/expressjs/express

__Other communication channels:__ https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/issues


---

## Finding info at the project repository and bug/issue tracker.

__License:__ MIT License

__Is it [OSI approved](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical) license:__ Yes.

__Programming Language:__ JavaScript

__URL for contributing instructions:__ https://github.com/expressjs/express/blob/master/Collaborator-Guide.md

__Are the contributing instructions clear?__ Yes


__URL for code of conduct / community norms / community guildelines:__ https://github.com/expressjs/express/blob/master/Contributing.md

__URL for instructions for users to download and install the package:__ http://expressjs.com/en/starter/installing.html


__Are these instructions clear? Do you think they would be easy to follow?__ Yes. Yes, the exact commands needed are provided.


__Number of contributors:__ 220


__Usernames of three contributors with largest number of commits; for
each of them list the link to their latest commit__:

1.
2.
3.


__Number of commits:__

__Latest commit__

- __link to the commit:__

- __who made that commit:__

- __what type of work was commited?__ (was it a fix to a bug, implementation of a new feature, ...)


__Issues__

- __how many open issues are there:__

    - __url for the last issue created:__

    - __how many users discuss the issue:__
    
    - __when was the issue reported:__
    

- __how many closed issues are there:__
    - __url for the last issue closed:__
    - __how many users discussed the issue:__
    - __when was the issue reported:__
    - __when was the issue closed:__

- __how active is the discussion on the issues:__ 

    - __example of a lot of good discussion:__ 
    
    - __example of an issue that does not have much discussion:__



- __are there issues marked "good for newbies", "beginner" or some other indicators that imply that they are good for beginner contributors:__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__
    
    - __look at a few of them, do they look beginner friendly?__ 



- __are there issues marked "documentation" or some other indicators that imply that they are documentation (user or developer specific):__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__
    
    - __look at a few of them, do you think you could submit a fix?__ 



__Pull requests__

- __how many open pull requests are there:__

    - __url for the last pull request created:__
    
    - __when was the last pull request made:__

    - __url for the oldest pull request created:__
    
    - __when was the oldest pull request made:__

- __how many closed pull requests are there:__

    - __url for the last pull request closed:__
    
    - __how many users discussed the pull request:__
    
    - __when was the pull request made:__
    
    - __when was the pull request closed:__
    

- __do maintainers respond quickly to pull requests when they are opened?__ 





---


## Summary assesment
__How friendly is this project for beginner contributors?__


__Do the maintainers respond helpfully to questions in issues?__


__Are people friendly in the issues, discussion forum, and chat (for example, IRC or Slack)?__



__Do pull requests get reviewed?__



__Do maintainers thank people for their contributions?__

