## Blog about your own experience with creating the browser extension
Working on our browser extension was a good way to practice working on a team. It was difficult to decide on an idea that we all felt excited about, but all of our opinions and proposals helped generate our final product. 

It was challenging to get our extension working because one of my teammates had close to no experience with JavaScript. It delayed us a bit trying to help him understand the basics and it was hard to effectively communicate since we were not able to meet in person with him.

We collaborated remotely because our schedules did not align well. We talked online and made all decisions via Facebook Messenger. In order to make decisions, we brainstormed a lot and threw our ideas at each other, commenting on the good and bad of each. We did not progress unless everyone was on board with the next goal, making sure that all 3 of us had a chance to comment on the task at hand. Once we had our plan, we would work on the code one at a time, asking each other for help if needed. If one of us got stuck or completed a part of the project, we would then let the next teammate work on the code.

Since I do not have that much experience working on code with a team, creating this extension was a fun learning experience for me. It is crucial to be able to effectively communicate about code and to be comfortable with working on a team because the more contributors, the more that can be accomplished. Moreover, our final design was a product of multiple viewpoints, delivering an extension that is likely to appeal to others and not just a single creator.
