---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

# Open Source

## What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"?
When I hear the term "open source" I think of collaboration and teamwork towards one shared goal. All are invited to 
help reach this goal so long as they contribute appropriately.

## What are some advantages of open vs. closed source?
Making a project open source provides a quick and easy way for your work to be evaluated by many people, providing an abundance of constructive criticism. Open source is also good for large projects that require team effort. Moreover, open source can help employers recruit talent, specifically contributors to their projects.

## What are some potential problems with open source?
It may be difficult to agree as a group on certain aspects or new ideas for the project. Open source can also make your project vulnerable to attacks and stealing.

## Why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?
I registered for this class to learn how to effectively contribute to open source projects and to gain experience in team-based software development. I also hope to get better at communicating with others about code and new ideas.

# Projects

1. NPM - A package and dependency manager for Node.js projects. I have used this in the past to install certain dependencies into my Javascript projects, such as Passport for user authentication. A couple of alternatives to NPM are Yarn or Webpack.

2. Ubuntu - A Linux operating system that was developed to increase usability and ease of use. I have used Ubuntu in the past for my Computer Systems Organization course. A couple of alternatives to Ubuntu are macOS and elementary OS.

3. FileZilla - Supports FTP, as well as FTP over TLS and SFTP. I have used this software to trasnfer local files from my computer to a remote computer. A couple of alternatives are Cyberduck and Transmit.

4. MongoDB - A document database that stores data in JSON-like documents. I have used MongoDB to set up databases for several of my assignments in Applied Internet Technology. A couple of alternatives are CouchDB and Terrastore.
