---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Describe your own contributions to your team's efforts of building your browser extension
My teammates and I regrouped and decided to go with a different idea instead of our original one. We came up with Seasonal-Theme2k19, which is an extension that displays a seasonal gif across the header of the user's browser window in accordance with the current season. On my part, I helped set up our open source LICENSE and completed the final steps to getting our extension to work how we wanted it to. My teammate had trouble displaying the gif across the header bar and I was able to fix this issue, as well as correcting the value assigned to the current month and fixing a conditional statement. I also ran all tests for our extension, making sure that the right seasonal gif was being supplied. Lastly, I added an icon for our extension.

## Describe the state of your browser extension project: what progress your team make, what problems you encountered, will you have a working product by the due date
We originally had a different idea so one obstacle for us was agreeing on an idea that we all liked and deciding how exactly we were going to bring it to life. One of our teammates does not have much experience with JavaScript so it was difficult to effectively communicate about potential strategies and the code itself. Even though my other partner and I have a good amount of experience using JavaScript, we are new to implementing Firefox Extensions so it took some time to fully understand the process of uploading it correctly. Moreover, we had to learn how to use the Javascript Theme API. 

Despite the problems, we will have a working product by the due date and are happy that we have succesfully implemented our extension. Depending on today's date, a seasonal gif is displayed across the header of the browser window, acting as a theme. So if someone were to use the extension right now, a snowing gif would appear. But in the summer, a surfing gif will appear. Similarly, during the fall and spring seasons there will be a different theme on display. 

## Describe at least one thing about git or gitHub that you learned this week (something that was new to you)
I learned this week that you could report issues to other’s work directly on GitHub. Previously, I was unsure how teammates would communicate with each other or even how contributors' work gets added to the original repository of an open source project. The issues tab provides a stable environment to handle all potential pull requests by using forking. I was also unsure as to what it meant to fork a repository and the reasons to do so. By allowing contributors to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project, forking a repo for each individual contribution is a great strategy for stability. I had never used forking before, so I learned how to do so, how to create new brances, and how to merge everything with the remote repository. Moreover, I also learned what the upstream master meant, how to push changes to it, and how to accept changes.
