---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Team Project Progress

For now, my team is focused on getting used to using React and learning what exactly it accomplishes. We have begun to look through the source code of the project and to learn how to use React with the guidance of one of our teammates who is very experienced with the library. Since I have not used JavaScript for some time, I have gone back to previous resources I used to learn the language in order to refresh my skills. We have also started sharing with each other the links to different issues we may be interested in working on. 

For next week, we aim to continue sharpening our skills with React and our understanding of the source code. Due to our current level of experience, we hope to make a contribution to documentation, but would jump on the right type of code issue if found.

## Wikipedia

### From your own point of view, what kind of people contribute to Wikipedia?

The type of people that contribute to Wikipedia are those committed to providing a quality and non-biased source of knowledge. The most active volunteers are passionate about education and believe in the importance of a well-informed community.

### Do you think you might one day become a regular contributor?

Although I won’t be a regular contributor, I do believe in the importance of Wikipedia’s mission and I see myself contributing from time to time. I use Wikipedia quite often and there are many articles on topics I am interested in that I feel I can help grow.

### How will you select the articles to contribute as part of the required contributions for this class?

Since I consider myself to be a big sports fan, I intend to focus on topics related to the major American sports leagues. It would probably be easiest to focus on new teams or rising players as their articles are likely new entries that still have a lot of room for developoment. For example, I intend to look into articles such as the one on Inter Miami CF, David Beckham's new MLS team that has yet to play their inaugural season. 

### Watch and comment on the TED talk that Jimmy Wales gave on the Birth of Wikipedia in 2005 (did you find any ideas and topics that were out of date?)

I believe that Jimmy Wales’ explanation of how Wikipedia survives and the idea of a need for “free” resources are still relevant to our current time, especially in the Open Source Software world. Like some of the open source projects we have evaluated these past few weeks, Wikipedia thrives off of a passionate and abundant community that really cares about the success and growth of the work they are delivering. Ultimately, none of these open source projects could succeed without a genuinely interested group of contributors as every edit is completely voluntary. Wikipedia sets the tone for other open source projects and is a great example of the great impact that “free” resources can have on people, opening the door for others to follow in their footsteps. 
