---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Explain (in your own words) the difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model. 

In my opinion, the cathedral model represents closed source software development while the bazaar model represents 
open source software development. The cathedral model involves an individual or small group of teammates carefully 
working on a project by themselves and only releasing it to the public when it is “complete” and free of bugs. 
Upon its release, people can not contribute to the project and may only use the software in the way the creators 
intended it to be used. On the other hand, the bazaar model involves a core group of developers that are open to 
the ideas and contributions of the public while they are building their project. The software being built is an 
accumulation of the efforts of many people, accepting new ideas and changes along the way that may not have been 
originally part of the plan. 

### Which of the two environments do you personally prefer?

I prefer to work in a bazaar-type environment because like lesson 19 says, “…many heads are inevitably better 
than one.” The more contributors to your project the more likely are bugs going to be noticed and issues will be 
fixed at a quicker pace. Moreover, an abundance of constructive criticism from the public will help quickly pinpoint 
what improvements can be made. Overall, I prefer this environment because it not only attracts many potential 
contributors but also because those that do get involved do so because of genuine interest and passion and not 
because they were assigned to do so. 

## The Cathedral and The Bazaar essay has 19 “lessons”. Pick two of these that you find to be the most intriguing,
interesting, telling, or ones that you simply liked. Quote them in your blog and try to explain what they’re 
supposed to mean.

8. "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone." 
    
    This lesson refers to the fact that the more eyes looking at your project the more likely is an issue going to be found and fixed. 
    No two coders have the same level of experience or skillset so with more contributors hopping on a project, the better the chances are 
    there will be someone that is well-suited to tackle a certain problem. Moreover, a bigger team allows for many issues to be fixed simultaneously. 
    
10. "If you treat your beta-testers as if they’re your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource."
    
    This lesson means that a positive and friendly environment can do a lot for the growth of your project. By introducing a Code of 
    Conduct, being thankful, and maintaining a welcoming environment, contributors will be more eager to contribute. With a growing team 
    of motivated and passionate contributors, your project will be able to grow much faster.


## Comment on the discussion of free vs. open, in what way are the similar and how are they different?

Free software and open source software are similar in that they both allow others to view the source code 
of a project and download it for their own personal use. However, they are different because free software 
is an ethical imperative, granting essential respect for the users’ freedom, while open source is a marketing 
program for free software that is more concerned with how to make software “better” in only a practical sense. 
While the free software movement fights for justice and freedom for the users of computing, open source leaves
out these principles and focuses on simply making code available for modification and redistribution. Free believes 
in the right for people to have total access to software and is always literally free of charge. On the other hand, 
open source software is not always zero-cost and can still restrict people in many ways, using licenses to dictate 
the way in which certain software can be used, modified or distributed. 

## Team Project Progress

Due to the difficulty of contributing to React’s codebase, my group and I decided to change our project to Material-UI, 
which is a series of React components that implement Google's Material Design. Another reason why we switched was in order 
to actually use React in our coding contributions and not just Javascript. A big goal for my teammates and I is to learn 
how to code with React so we believe that focusing on actual React components would be a better way to test our skills. 
Since we changed projects, this week we forked the Material-UI repository and set up the development environment in our 
respective computers. We began searching out issues and have noticed that there are a lot concerning documentation so 
this would be a good place to start this week. As for me personally, during the last week I continued to focus on learning React. 
    
    
    
